Well, God's Word is so rich, there's so much in it, and Galatians 6.1 is no exception.
So please, let's turn there, and we're going to read the whole thing.
And then we're going to analyze Galatians 6.1, phrase by phrase.
There's a lot in this one verse.
So Galatians chapter 6 and verse 1,
all right, brothers, even if a man takes a false step before he is aware of it,
you who have spiritual qualifications, try to read just such a man in the spirit of mildness,
but keep an eye on yourself for fear you too may be tempted.
Now the first word is brothers, and we notice that that is in the plural.
That may be significant, and we're going to come back to that in a few minutes.
Now Paul says, even if a man takes a false step, so what's the metaphor here?
What is Paul thinking about? Walking.
He sees a man who is walking down a path, and all of a sudden he takes a false step.
Now come to think of it, this isn't the first time that Paul mentions walking
in his letter to the Galatians. Cast your eye on chapter 5.
And notice verse 16, but I say, keep walking by spirit, and you will carry out no fleshly desire
at all. And again, verse 18, furthermore, if you are being led by spirit, you are not under law.
And once again, verse 25, if we are living by spirit, let us also go on walking orderly by spirit,
literally walking in a straight line. And then chapter 6 and verse 1, brothers, even if a man
takes a false step. So Paul sees a Christian who is walking along, walking in a straight line,
but all of a sudden he takes a false step. Question, is one false step so serious?
Well, those of us who have tried to walk down the uneven pavement on Columbia Heights,
and have taken a false step as we stepped off the curb and wrenched something or put something out,
we can testify that one false step can be serious. And what about you young brothers,
you basketball players? You know that sometimes when you're on the basketball court, you take one
false step and you end up on crutches for a few weeks. So the fact is that one false step can be
serious and interestingly, the Greek word that's translated false step here allows for a variety of
meanings. It can apply to a minor infraction, but it can also apply to a major transgression,
a major sin. And you'll notice in the comment today when we read it that Galatians 6, 1 is being
applied to a serious sin. So it can be applied to both. Let's carry on. He takes a false step
before he is aware of it. Now, what does that mean? Well, the Greek, the Greek word here indicates
that the sin is not deliberate. He didn't leave home that day with the idea that he was going to
commit a serious sin. It came upon him unawares. He was surprised. Perhaps he got into the wrong
crowd and all of a sudden he ended up doing something that he really hadn't planned to do.
It is not deliberate, but that doesn't mean that the sin isn't serious. It just means that it was not
intentional. Now, here's help. Help comes on the way. It says, you who have spiritual qualifications.
Welcome to think of it, the Galatians would know what these are. Because in chapter 5,
verses 22 and 23, the Apostle Paul outlined the nine aspects of the footage of the spirit,
so they would know what the spiritual qualifications are, but here's the point.
As Brother Divine brought out, those who give counsel need to be motivated by the Holy Spirit,
not by frustration, not by anger. This is no knee jerk reaction, a flash of anger or something. No,
the Holy Spirit has to move us to give the counsel. Now, the next word is interesting. It says,
you who have spiritual qualifications, try. Now, you won't find that word in many
Bibles. I think there's only one other beside the New World translation that says, try.
And most of the Bible translations follow the King James, and the King James that says,
you who are spiritual, restore the man. Now, the Greek allows for both. It allows for an attempt,
or it can be a direct action. So now, the translators have to choose.
The original New World Translation Committee chose, try. Why? Well, they realized that while there
would be an attempt to readjust, the outcome would depend on the person who was being readjusted.
Would he really want to change? Maybe it would be successful, and maybe it wouldn't. And perhaps
because Jehovah's Witnesses probably do more in giving counsel and giving help to people
than anyone else, the translation committee saw the subtlety in Galatians 6.1.
Well, now, we have a man walking along. He takes a false step. What can happen when you take a false
step? You may dislocate a bone, and that brings us to the word readjust. He says, try to readjust
such a man. Now, you probably know that the word is a medical term for setting a fractured
bone in place. So it works really well with the metaphor, doesn't it? For walking along,
you take a false step, something gets out of joint, and now you have to be readjusted,
the bone has to be set in place. And now we come to what Brother Divine was talking about,
in a spirit of mildness. And that's good advice, because sometimes the elders are called upon
to counsel someone who has done something that they find disgusting, and their emotions could
get involved. They may feel like giving the person a good tongue lashing, but they don't.
They pray for Holy Spirit, and what's one of the aspects of the Holy Spirit?
Mildness. They pray for a spirit of mildness. After all, if the person did something that bad,
he's probably thoroughly ashamed of himself, and it may have taken every ounce of courage that
that person has just to come to the elders. So we deal with the person in kindness.
So it says a spirit of mildness, and then the next phrase is, but keep an eye on yourself.
Yourself. Wait a minute. That singular, isn't it? Didn't we say that at the beginning of verse 1,
Paul addressed his brothers, plural? But now he's addressing each and every person who was called
upon to give counsel, and Paul says, keep an eye on yourself. Now this calls for a self-examination.
I'm sure that many of us feel very similar in each of the comments that was given this morning.
Many of us who have given counsel for years can look back with regret at times,
at times when we should have been more kind, more mild, and giving counsel.
And so it's good for us to undertake a self-examination from time to time. How am I coming across
in the counsel that I'm giving to others? By using the singular, Paul is talking to each and
every one of us. If you are an elder, Paul is talking to you. Paul is talking to me, and he's saying
examine yourself, examine how your counsel is coming across. Final phrase. For fear, you too may be
tempted. Now what does Paul mean by that? Is he saying that if you hear the details of what
the person has done, you may want to do the same thing? No. What he's reminding of us of is that
we are all imperfect. Paul is saying to us, don't get on your high horse. Don't be self-righteous
when you're giving counsel to others. Remember, you are imperfect. And one day, you could be sitting
on the other side of the table and receiving counsel. And if that were the case, how would you like
to be treated in a spirit of mildness? Keeping our own limitations in mind will help us to moderate our
tone to speak to the offender in a spirit of mildness. So let's reread Galatians 6-1. Brothers,
even if a man takes a false step before he is aware of it, you who have spiritual qualifications
try to readjust such a man in a spirit of mildness. But keep an eye on yourself for fear you too
may be tempted. Well, what can we take away from this brief discussion? If we can just remember
that counsel must be given in mildness by those who are moved by Holy Spirit, this discussion will
have been worth having.